Application Name:
Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures (ATSPM)

Version Number:
V4.2
Signal Configuration
	Enhancements
	●	Signal Versions
	●	Latency Correction
	●	Allow overlaps for permissive and protected phases
	Bug Fixes
	●	Single digit detector channels save as 5 digit detector ID
	●	Overlap won’t save on first save
	●	Speed disappears after save unless Approach Speed is selected

Route Configuration
	Enhancements
	●	Universal route setup
	Bug Fixes
	●	Unable to Create new routes through the interface

Aggregation Reporting
	Enhancements
	●	Data aggregation Process
	●	Data Aggregation Charts
	●	Export chart data

Data Archive for Partitions
	Enhancements
	●	Turn on or off through user interface
	●	Specify the number of months to keep
	●	Data is exported not deleted

Signal Charts
	Enhancements
	●	Select button for mobile devices
	●	Clustered Map Pins
	●	Run charts by URL
	●	Approach Speed 15th percentile line
	●	Purdue Split Failure for overlaps
	●	Turning Movement Counts Plot with start of interval, not end
	Bug Fixes
	●	Approach Delay Incorporate code to ignore stop bar sensors, use only Approach Count
	●	Posted speed doesn't show if you untoggle Show Plans
	●	Approach Volume Data Table - Peak volume is 4 times too big
	●	Approach volume doesn't match TMC volumes
	●	Arrivals on Red Incorporate code to ignore stop bar sensors, use only Approach Count
	●	Ped Delay Fix which Code 45 is used in calculation
	●	Purdue Split Failure Split Failure only looks back 30 minutes for Detector 
	●	Turning Movement Counts Data Table displaying incorrect time
	●	Turning Movement Counts ignores duplicate movement-lane configurations

Purdue Link Pivot
	Bug Fixes
	●	Link Pivot PCDs use random phases

Administrative
	Enhancements
	●	Configuration Role
	●	Data Role

About Page
	Enhancements
	●	Contributors Section

Data Export
	Enhancements
	●	Ability to set maximum number of rows to allow users to export
	●	Ability to specify specific event types and event parameters


Version Number:
V4.0.1

Enhancements 
•	Improved Preemption Details chart
•	Changed Watchdog alerts to run on weekdays only
•	Created Watchdog Configuration page
•	Added Unknown termination type to Phase Termination Chart
•	Modified Purdue Split Failure and Yellow and Red Actuations charts to define unique charts by approach and to have a separate chart for permissive and protected phases. 
•	Added a data table to the Turning Movement Counts metric
•	Created a Signal Configuration Report (http://udottraffic.utah.gov/ATSPM/Signals/SignalDetail)
•	Standardized chart headers
•	Added detection type and distance from stop bar to Approach Volume header
•	Created editor for FAQ page
•	Changed line weights for Purdue Coordination Diagram large dot size
•	Chart axes intervals will change based on range
•	Created a User Configuration page in the Admin -> Security menu
•	Added Technician user role for read-only access to the Signal Configuration page

Fixed Bugs
•	Purdue Coordination Diagram will now show multiple detectors per approach
•	Purdue Phase Termination no longer shows two pedestrian activations per event
•	Today's date now autofills on page load
•	Total Volume is now populated in Approach Volume data table
•	Able to add first approach to a route in Route Configuration 


Version Number:
V4.0
•	Initial release of ATSPM.


Description:
Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures (ATSPM) are a series of visual aids that display the high-resolution data from signal controllers. They are a valuable asset management tool, aiding personnel in the control of both signal hardware and signal timing and coordination. They allow analysis of data collected 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, improving the accuracy, flexibility, and performance of signal equipment and the system as a whole. ATSPM are used to optimize mobility, manage traffic signal timing and maintenance, reduce congestion, save fuel costs and improve safety.

Features:
Signal Measures Charts
Purdue Phase Termination
Split Monitor
Pedestrian Delay
Preemption Details
Turning Movement Counts
Purdue Coordination Diagram
Approach Volume
Approach Delay
Arrivals on Red
Approach Speed
Yellow and Red Actuations
Purdue Split Failures
Purdue Link Pivot

Reports
Usage

Installation and removal instructions:
Installation manual will be forthcoming provided by GDOT.

License information
See the accompanying LICENSE.txt file.

System Requirements
•	 Windows Server 2008 or newer installed
•	.NET 4.5.2 Framework installed:
•	 In Server 2012, this is installed using Add Features under Server Manager. 
o	 When adding the .NET framework, ensure that HTTP Activation and TCP Port Sharing are installed with it.
o	 In Server 2008, .NET 4.5.2 is a separate install.
•	IIS 7 or better installed, along with ASP.NET 4.0 or later
o	 In Windows Server, IIS is installed using Add Roles (Server 2008 or later).
o	 When adding the IIS role, ensure ASP.NET 4.0 or later is included. In Server 2008 or later, this is found under Web Server (IIS) > Web Server > Application Development when adding IIS.
•	Firewall exceptions for connections to the controllers 
•	SQL Server Express, SQL Server 2008 R2, or newer installed
•	If Watchdog features are desired, installation requires access to an SMTP (email) server. It will accept email from the automated traffic signal performance measures (ATSPM) server. The SMTP server can reside on the same machine.
•	Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 or later is recommended.
•	
Documentation
Documentation will be forthcoming provided by GDOT.


Web sites
The software is distributed through the USDOT's JPO Open Source Application Development Portal (OSADP) ->    http://itsforge.net/

